# Release Notes for VLCB-Arduino library

Releases are listed on GitHub: https://github.com/SvenRosvall/VLCB-Arduino/releases

# Current development - pending release

# 3.0.1 - Remove generated documentation in HTML directories

API documentation generated by Doxygen is now generated automatically and
uploaded to Github Pages. No need to run Doxygen manually.

# 3.0.0 - Separate out MCP2515 transport

Moved CAN2515 class and example sketches that use this transport to its own
repository.
This is to remove dependency on external library ACAN2515 which is not needed
if any other transport method is used.

Fixes:
* Clear event table after manufacturer reset to avoid old events re-appearing.
* Event Teaching Service updated to service version 3.
* Provide more example sketches that communicate over serial line.
* Update reboot method for RP2040.
* Improve documentation for sketch developers and library developers.
* API documentation generated with Doxygen.
* Split Service::process(Action * action) into two functions to simplify
  writing child services.  
  **Note:** This is a breaking change for any user defined services.
* Add InternalDiagnosticsService that provides diagnostics for internal
  state such as free memory and action queue usage.
* Extend SerialUserInterface to show action queue usage.
* Add functions to EventProducerService to send events that are not taught.
* Use `TimedResponse` to send multiple response messages with timed intervals.
* Move CAN2515 transport to its own repository.

# 2.2.0 - Split EventTeachingService

Provide service data.

Split EventTeachingService into classic teaching and event index (slot) teaching.
This reduces memory footprint as code for both teaching methods need to be
included in user sketches.

# 2.1.0 - Example sketch clean-up
Update example sketches for better readability.

Add VLCB functions for convenient sending messages.

# 2.0.0 - Event Slot support
Major rework on how events are handled.

Support the concept of *event slots* where the event table consists
of a number of *slots*.
Each slot defines what to do for produced and consumed events.
See example sketch [VLCB_4in4out_slot](docs/Examples.md#vlcb_4in4out_slot).

To support slots the following changes were done:

* The treatment of the first event variable (EV#1) as specifying 
a produced event is moved from the library to user sketches.
It is now up to the sketch designer to decide the meaning of 
each event variable.

* There is no need to specify how many "producer" events the module uses.

* `EventProducerService` method `sendEvent()` used to send an event
that matched a given EV#1 value. 
It is replaced by the new method `sendEventAtIndex()` which takes an
event index as parameter. 
The event at this index will be sent.

* The `EventConsumerService` may call the `eventHandler` callback
multiple times, one for each slot that has an event with the same
event ID (node number / event number) as the incoming event.

* The example sketch `VLCB_4in4out` no longer uses the external Bounce2 
library for managing switches.
Code has been added to the sketch to create default events for module
switch changes. 
The module behaves as before.

* The example sketch `VLCB_1in1out` no longer creates default
events when the module switch changes.

# 1.1.0 - Minor fixes
* Improves how the green LED flashes on incoming messages to make messages for this node more distinguishable.
* Updates to how objects are set up. All of these changes are hidded by the VLCB convenience functions so if you use these VLCB convenience functions for setup then there will be no changes to your sketch.

# 1.0.0 - First distributed release
This release introduced helper functions in the ```VLCB``` namespace
and simplified module setup.